okay welcome everybody this is the town
of vover board of Finance meeting for
Wednesday July 24th
2024 um we'll go ahead and get started
I'll call a meeting to order at uh
7:02 looks like um over recite this
Pledge of Allegiance I pledge allegiance
to the flag of the United States of
America and to the Republic for which it
stands one
indivisible liberty and
justice okay thank
[Music]
you um okay first agenda item is the
public speak I know we have Shannon here
with us doesn't look like anybody else
Shannon did you wanna do you have any
comments before we I know you want to
add the uh committee Tri committee AG U
policy to the agenda is there anything
else you wanted to address not at the
moment thanks very much okay we have
Linda too oh yeah that's right I'm used
to seeing Linda's face in the corn you
know Linda do you have anything no I
just stay tuned every once in a while
got it glad to have you Mark can I
suggest you add
uh um Levy schedule for
AES yeah yeah yeah well we're not there
yet not there yeah
but yeah sorry yeah that's okay I
thought you were already at changes
we're going there next so I'm hearing
nothing more we'll go on to changes and
additions to the agenda um as Eric
suggested one item that we should add to
the agenda is the schedule for the uh
Levy for the uh for the
school
um so I guess I'm just going to go ahead
and make that motion to add that as
agenda item which I guess would be uh
5f which is the uh the following the
last item under new business uh do I
have a
second Louise okay any
discussion and just as a little context
this is the um we need to have a formal
review and a policy about when the uh
when the uh transfers are made to the
school district there's little confusion
over that with the treasurer so um we
can discuss that and clarify it so that
it's uh working everyone's
Advantage so okay if there's no further
discussion I'll call a vote all those in
favor say I I I okay any
opposed any AB
extensions okay hearing none we'll move
on okay any other additions and changes
to the agenda I mean Shannon had
requested that we we consider that the
uh tri board uh committee excuse me yeah
I think that should be on there yeah
so we should add I I I'll move that we
add that policy uh it's really kind of
old business but we'll we can We'll add
it as new business I guess no well I put
it under old business I mean we already
discussed you guys discussed it already
right we did yeah so I would
yeah anybody want to second that motion
I'll second it okay Joan any
discussion all those in favor say I I I
any
opposed any
extensions no okay we'll go ahead and
add that as item 4 C then to the
agenda any other additions or changes to
the agenda
the transfers there got okay yeah I
think we have everything else that I
want to
address no
more okay we'll move on to agenda item 4
a which is the review of budget to
actual um Eric we have this in our
packet I took a quick look at it we've
got some things that look like they're
just probably some big divergencies but
they probably just items that need to be
caught up for the end of the fiscal year
school payments for
example
correct
okay and there was something else oh the
uh the State Trooper salary was another
big one I see or paid that yeah so we
have gotten the
invoice uh it did get paid Unfortunately
they sent the bill to Sherry
Holmes um you know and since she's dead
it would be hard for her to for it to us
um so we had to request it and we did
get it we have paid the bill it's under
the budgeted amount so we're we're in
good shape there um you
know we're just we're trying to clear
up uh kind of the last of the
outstanding bills right now we're pretty
close um you know and I'll be prepared
to show you the uh
um what do you call it the the transfers
transfers that Cheryl is proposing yeah
looks like we did a little better than
expected on some of the property
taxes tax revenue
right yeah and
in you know those are always uh a guess
you know in in part
because there there's always a
difference between when the grand list
is published which is by January 15th
and people come in with corrections and
additions before the start of the fiscal
year that it get included then and then
there's also supplemental uh you know
there's a supplemental Grand list for
changes that occur during the year um so
although we can predict the first we we
can't really predict the latter
yeah and of course we've uh got a lot
more income than from interest than
expected because of the stiff interest
so that uh put a lot of Revenue in that
wasn't originally budgeted for so we're
actually from that standpoint very good
shape any concerns
Eric uh no not at this
point um you know I think we we know we
were under budget last year um and later
we can talk about I have a a line item
you know to talk about uh the error we
found in the Excel spreadsheet that we
found when we started putting the money
the budget into QuickBooks and we ended
up with the two not matching and Cheryl
mostly but she and I both spent a bunch
of time trying to figure out why those
two documents didn't match and we
eventally figured it out um and it was
an error in the actual spreadsheet that
we were using um basically it double it
double counted a set of
lines um which ended up with a fairly
large
difference um which will reduce the use
of unexpended fund balance in last year
but we'll we'll get to that when we get
to it
y anybody have any other questions for
Eric on the current budget versus
actual no I'll have questions later Mark
like with the topic we were just
discussing but wait till we get to it on
the
agenda
okay all right what there's no other
questions any questions on the check
register all right hearing none I guess
we'll move on to new business so 5A is
the transfer of funds for the budget
overages didn't we you did send that uh
can we add 4 C
Mark oh yeah I'm sorry thank you so 4C
is the
uh what's the exact PR board policy
right uh the capital fund for Capital
fund policy regarding Capital fund okay
so you know we talked about our last
meeting you weren't here so you know we
wanted to wait before taking any action
give people a chance to mullet
over um we had to get the final version
of it from Shannon we've done that um
you know hopefully you've had a chance
to at least look at it and you know if
people have questions concerns we should
go over them and if we're good with it I
think we should take action on
it have you forwarded that to the board
of Selectmen
you know I I sort of had assumed it had
gotten to them but I I did not forward
it to the board of selectman no are we
doing it step by step I'm not sure Rob
we'll talk to Shannon in a minute if you
know Mark will call her in but we talked
about it last meeting at length and went
over it and put it up I mean maybe we
can pull it up if Rob has it it's it's
pretty straightforward I think this time
and I think that it got P I
mean you know it's been reduced and it
was we went over it a lot it was
explained um I think the Board of Ed had
already passed it came up to us so
hopefully if we maybe if if Mark wants
to pull it up or whatever and then we
just go over it real quick yeah I can do
that a lot of us were in favor of it I
think Rob I mean because you know it's
um since it's a new account and new
oversight it kind of protects everyone
Rob will speak to that but we about it
but we wanted more of our board members
to be present
yeah and Eric makes a good point we
probably should have gotten the you know
it over to the the board selectman
sooner but let me worse comes to worst
um if we're good with it we can send it
to them and say hey we we recommend it
we we've we've agreed to it you the
Board of Ed likes it uh please please
review and take action you know kind of
thing but yeah I mean oops uh but yeah
we talked about last time the the the
there don't feel bad we didn't do
anything I think it was intended that
way okay I hadn't really thought had
really about process of the board's you
know a stepwise process or everybody
looks at it at the same time um but
anyway uh I'm good with it but I wanted
you know to see if anybody else had any
issues or questions or thoughts uh
before we you know before I bring it a
proposal that we vote on it just just to
clarify
this proposed policy is has not changed
from the one that Shannon sent around is
approved by the Board of Ed June 12th 24
is that correct
okay all right just want to make sure I
hadn't missed anything so I was out of
town for several weeks after that can
you send me a copy of
that yeah um here I've got it I've got
the email up I'll forward
it is someone able to put it up and then
if yeah you know it's very easy to read
through and then yeah if you want to
give me the right to share I can pop it
up I have't problem uh any specific
questions right the nice part about it
while you're all figuring that out and
getting it put up I thought it allowed
for a lot of um fairness and having if
we want to call it the subcommittee
right Rob as far as having two members
from each board um and then there was
specific tie Breakers um it just really
made a lot of sense I think um
yeah right that was the big that was the
big kind of breakthrough was figuring
out how if we're going to have two
members of each board you know kind of
have an ad hoc committee when when
necessary uh then you're GNA have a
Sixers committee and you have to figure
out what happens if you have a three3
tie and uh ultimately you know the the
solution is that there are three boards
so if two out of the three boards or all
three uh agree on something you know
they can break the tie so um but yeah
it's a much more streamlined basic
document the idea is we're kind of we're
going to create a committee that when
there is a need for them to meet they
are the oversight for this uh rather
than trying to put everything in a neat
little box in a policy document uh we're
going to kind of hopefully trust that
that board or that commission or
whatever you want to call it that
committee sorry uh can do a good job of
administering this thing hey um Mark can
you uh make that full screen or enlarge
that
you want it you want it to be well I
it's very
small too small to read yeah full screen
yeah I was trying to I'm trying it's
just it's in portrait mode on a larger
monitor for me so that a little easier
well that looks good easier and easier
by the minute yeah every click seems to
be better thank I can read it
now yeah and as a refresher that the
name the 35 School Road that the idea
behind that was just to make it clear
that you know it's it's capital a
capital fund for the buildings and
grounds of
AES um you know for which they're the
Boe is responsible so they chose they
thought that was a better name just to
make it clear that encompasses building
and grounds um I don't really care what
it's called P personally um but they
they liked that and I'm good with
it so first of all I think that is too
long and name in
QuickBooks
um I would have to check and see I we
chose AES Capital fund because it was
short and it was easy to put in
QuickBooks as a fund title um I'm not
saying you can't do it um I'm just
saying I don't know that for a fact so
that's a um under B so it looks like
that you as the board of Finance are
giving up your authority to weigh in on
AES budget uh surpluses because you are
giving them cart blanch to deposit into
this fund so they can deposit now 2% by
state law into their own fund and they
can deposit everything else into this
fund is that your intention to give up
your Authority for
that we put our trust in this committee
this is like our starting that's not the
committee
you're allowing the Board of Education
to do it the Board of Education may
choose to deposit money from its budget
into the capital fund you're giving them
permission to do that without any
further oversight from the board of
Finance is that what you
intended let us sit on it for a minute I
want to just process it um
okay may choose to deposit money from
its budget
into
so understanding this
so when I did a first run through when
it said they can choose to deposit money
from its budget into the
35 interesting Eric and thank you for
bringing it up for conversation you know
I'm speaking out loud I think
that I took it as possibly you know in
the budget season you know we're going
to have this Capital fund for AES every
year or whatever we end up calling it um
you know the board of
Selectmen um in our budget this year
there was a 100,000 that was
budgeted um in that line so I think when
I did a first read
through um I was thinking something
different of that and I'll sit back and
let
everybody right the the 100,000 that's
the town size
this is addressing sort of the Boe
side and it reads you know Eric's right
it reads the way it is currently drafted
right it reads that the Boe has the
discretion to put the money in um the
the committee is oversight for you know
spending the
money so you know in the past the
procedure was Boe would ask Board of
Finance to put money in um that was
obviously something B would like their
freedom to do themselves so this is this
is the draft um this is the way that
that it was draft
redrafted um you know at this point you
know I I
wanna get this guess I want to know and
so I don't have strong feelings on it
but I you know it's a fair point to
bring up and people should think about
that before agreeing to
it um I I thought that one of the things
that that $100,000 that we put into the
budget was one of the things that was to
kind of alleviate or offset the desire
for the AES to be able to do that I
thought this was kind of to appease that
situation we're you know $100,000 was
put in there plus they can do the 2% I
thought that was kind of the idea of and
then we would be able to as the board of
Finance still have say and any uh
leftover money at the end of the year
and how and where it went whether it was
it to go into the capital budget or back
into the general budget or whatever but
I thought that was kind of the reason
and maybe Eric you you can remind about
isn't that why we kind of did that
was we put $100,000 we never used to do
that we never used to put $100,000 a
year right into the budget for AES
Capital fund this is a new fund I
thought that was kind of to offset or to
leviate some of that tension if you will
about what happened the money left over
at the end of the year and it was before
Eric answers I was thinking the unspent
money at the end of the year I would
have no problem I think in my mind I was
glad we established this and we're going
to do baby steps and then like you said
Bill and then I'll step back and just
listen I love the idea of having this
and it would not bother me if they had
unspent money and they put it in a
capital fund that was going to be used
for the Board of Ed I'm all in favor of
that you know um I guess as I'm really
dissecting the words like I don't know
which money are we talking because
you're saying may also choose to deposit
money from its budget
into so the Andover Board of Ed may also
choose to deposit money from its budget
so I I took it as they might want to put
a line item in their budget too is that
yeah so I guess I need to hear a little
bit about that this is leftovers at the
end of the year um basic the same idea
the 2% but you know now that I'm
thinking about it there's something that
occurs to me and I hadn't for whatever
reason hadn't really thought of
before I don't know if the school would
ever want to do this but I don't know if
there's a mechanism through which they
could decide to transfer money not from
their unspent budget from but from their
2% fund if they thought that was
necessary um and I don't know if that
might we want to have a line in there
about that too uh cuz 2% I think you
know is sort of a savings mechanism for
them but you know I guess in the past
when it everything was kind of handled
through their operating budget you know
there was no issue there here if you
have money in a 2% lapsing and you know
a big issue comes up a capital issue uh
if they wanted to put some of that money
that's in the 2% fund into the capital
fund and use it for that purpose is that
is via this policy it's sort of Silent
on whether they can do that well they
could just they could just choose not to
fund the 2% fund and put it into here
instead right well I'm thinking of
depending on how built up the 2% fund is
right the 2% fund is at the end of the
year correct me if I'm wrong at the end
of the year they can put up to 2% of
their operating budget into the into the
fund in theory if you're not I mean in
theory that fund could build up right is
there a cap on it Beyond I mean there's
a there's a there's a cap on the load in
right to % but if you load in 2% a
couple years in a row and you know for
whatever reason don't spend all that
money you could be building it up right
I don't know if that's ever a thing
that's actually happened
though well there's 160 something,
$65,000 I think in that account now um
so to answer your question Rob the two%
non-aps account now is a lot more
flexible than it was in the past when
the state law changed several years ago
and it went from 1% to 2% it also
broadened the things they could expend
that money for so anything in the 2%
non-aps account could be spent for any
elementary school or education related
Capital project so they could
absolutely uh with the building owner
permission so with the board of
selectmen's permission because they
still can't do a capital Project without
the board of Selectmen but they could
offer that up as part of the funding
mechanism for a capital project if they
so chose right now so that that
shouldn't be affected by this because we
can easily fund something out of two
different funds at the same time we do
that all the time for capital projects
take some money from the Steep account
finish the rest off with the building
maintenance fund kind of thing so that
shouldn't be an
issue
okay and it seems to me that adding a
language run that would just kind of
confuse things make it a little more
complicated than probably needs to be I
mean and and given Eric's explanation um
you know whatever I was working my way
towards there is it's not really
concerned for me anymore um that's fine
if it's if it's a simple matter of just
mixing and matching from from two
different funds and we do that all time
you know I hadn't really thought about
it until just this moment so it was a
half-baked kind of a concern uh so
whatever no big deal there so yeah it
just comes back to the question about
whether we're comfortable um having it
drafted this way where Boe can just sort
of make the make the call uh or we feel
the need to you know insert ourselves
back into that um you know the way it
was before uh where we had to give
approval well the way it used to be with
what the with the 2% fund right with
state law changed so that's not a thing
anymore but it used to be that you know
we'd have to sign off on
it well no that's not really true before
you still
didn't they still have absolute
authority over the money in the fund I
know you've never had that
as not I was saying I was I was saying
that when they they wanted to put money
into it didn't didn't we usually
right receive that proposal that's what
I'm talking yes yes so I'm say is what
I'm saying is if people really want that
mechanism to apply to this then that
would require a redraft because the way
it's written right now it doesn't do
that um I'm pretty agnostic about it
guys uh so why don't y'all discuss
and you know I personally don't have a
problem with it as it's written um
I I I think that the money know is
allocated to the school I think if this
you know it's part of the school budget
the town votes on it if at the end of
the day the Board of Ed decides they
want to put some of it towards the
capital fund you know if this becomes a
year-over-year and they're drump they're
you know putting two $300,000 in there
right then I think I would probably say
we need to stop and rethink this because
we're basically overfunding or or we
just need to call the school budget you
know at say hey but you know it just
seems to be that that we're putting a
couple hundred, dollar of every budget
into this into this Capital fund at the
end of the year and are the voters okay
with that you know so that's really a
different different issue I I personally
I don't see I don't have much of a
concern over
this I agree oh go ahead Ron no I I just
had one more thought and and this is
probably 11th hour so take it or leave
it but um right now correct me if I'm
wrong the school doesn't
really if they wanted to put in their
budget right at the outset of the year
you know we you know $50,000 for the
capital fund could that be done and
would the policy as drafted be a problem
if they wanted to do that
I at the end of the year we have money
left over we could put it into this we
can save it I don't I don't know why
that wouldn't be a possibility why the
mechanism couldn't be used if really
want you know people wanted to use to
try to do that well see I'm not sure I
agree with that because the capital fund
is held on the state the town side of
the
ledger so the town has to fund that if
you if it's direct budgeted amounts I
would think yeah and I guess it doesn't
make sense to do that on the schools
because we do that on the town budget
anyway already right we did that this
year on the budget right so would we do
that through the Board of Ed
budget that's where I was getting
confused with rereading it too deep and
I agree with Bill I mean what he brought
up with why we started this fund why we
wanted to have it available you know it
was in good faith that the um you know
the town I think funded it higher than I
thought we were going to so that's
that's really good it got gave them a
good start um so I'm in favor of this if
this was I mean this I have no problem
with if if it was money that was
allocated to the Board of Ed and then at
the end of the year there's unspent
funds and they want to funnel them into
that I have no problem with them making
the decision to do that in fact I would
probably be in favor because we've
Unearthed quite a few projects that are
coming up so I mean that was the whole
purpose exactly what um Bill said was we
wanted to get this going and hoping that
unspent money would go there but I would
be concerned and I think other town you
know if if there's a big Surplus every
year
but we'll take that year by year um yeah
that's my two cents I'm in favor I don't
have a problem with
it hey Eric did you get the email I sent
you uh copy of this I'm just gonna go
ahead roll on to the next section if
everybody's okay that okay with that so
just reading this each of the Board of
Ed Board of finance and board of Select
select two members from the board to
serve on a committee
total should determine how the money
shall be spent all money shall be spent
on capital projects for 35 School Road
all capital projects of 35 School Road
to be managed by tri board
committee Bo a will submit requests for
expenditures to the
committee so if you go back up to item
a that says explicitly that the money in
that fund can only be spent on 35 School
Road yet the charter gives you as a
board of
Finance the ability in an emergency
situation to take money from any Capital
fund or any unspent funds that the town
has and uses it to deal with an
emergency so I don't think that's
consistent with this
policy um I think you would want the
town's attorney to weigh in on whether
you can even agree to that because that
seems to contradict the
charter um I think but I am not the
town's
attorney you're on mute
Joanne last meeting we did have Shannon
pip in I know she has the legal side and
might have something to share with us on
that um and I appreciate Eric's opinion
but since we're discussing it in full
should we invite Shannon to address what
Eric just said if she sees the charter
being you know yeah I sure I mean I I
think honestly I'd have to go back and
look at the charter and I'm a Layman but
I think Eric's right but I think all I
think almost by default the charter is
going to supersede if there's something
here that's deemed to be in conflict
with the
charter the charter would probably
Prevail but you know if if such a thing
were it need need to happen is is
Shannon still on
so yeah okay I don't know Shannon if you
have any input on that I agree with you
Mark I think two things number one if
that's an a concern um we could
certainly add it to the policy um if
that's a concern we can add that caveat
on there it I understand it's in the
town's ledger so that would be available
to the town to do that um and then the
second thing is the charter is in the
process of being revised um it hasn't
yet been passed by the board of
selectman so if it's something that
needs to be addressed it could also be
brought to the attention of the board of
Selectmen uh during the charter revision
public hearing next
Thursday
there Mark can you scroll down just a
little bit Yeah i' like like to kind of
keep want to see that I wanted to read D
just
okay you got a copy of this bill in your
emails yeah I know I do but I'm reading
it right here right now I'm just I just
wanted to make sure you got it I got
four things open and I'm just trying to
look at this one here but thank
you right so the under duties of the
board of Finance if a supplemental
appropriation is needed which is how an
emergency appropriation would be blah
blah blah if you go down to source of
funding it says funding for supplemental
Appropriations may be provided from the
following sources transfer from any
available fund balance so the charter
pretty clearly says you as a commission
have the authority to raid any Fund in
an emergency
situation um so I don't think you could
you should be signing something an
agreement that goes against that but I'm
also not a voting member
so but that's my
take is that something we can add to
this document
um I guess I'm talking to Shannon and to
Rob is that something that would be
agreeable my gut reaction is that I mean
if if we feel that that's a concern then
we could probably add a single sentence
to say that you know not withstanding
the foregoing uh nothing in this
provision shall uh supersede the town
Charter or you know if there's a
conflict with the town Charter the town
Charter prevails we could just put that
in there I me it's probably true anyway
but if we wanted to just put it in a
single sentence saying you know nothing
in this policy
you know could invalidate the charter um
so you know we could add it could be a
single sentence I
think I I think you know to the extent
that we we're thinking of this as more
of a statement of
intent you know under normal operating
procedure this is how we do it uh but
you know in in an extremists if there's
some sort of event uh then we would have
that
out um um so yeah maybe maybe a single
sentence along those lines I think that
would be required you know if we do
revise it that way I'm assuming that you
know Boe would need to repass it um oh
right you know at their next meeting or
what have you but yeah I think it's a
fairly straight fairly straightforward
uh I just have to think about exactly
how I'd phrase it but something along
the lines of what I said you know not
withstanding the above yeah uh you know
nothing nothing in a supersedes the town
truer
I think that would probably be
satisfactory to most people I don't know
if Shar Shannon wants to weigh in on
that
but so that sounds fine um I I think two
things number one um we wanted to go
board by board so maybe the other thing
to do would be I could add that into the
current policy um if you pass it the
next thing would be to get it to the
board of Selectmen for their
consideration they meet before the Board
of Education meets in August so
depending upon any further changes that
they might want to see made um then we
could as a board of ed consider that in
our August meeting
thanks I agree with all of you I think
we also said that there's no way with
this being the olive branch and trying
the baby step thing that work it would
be hard pressed for US unless it's a
major catastrophe urgent horrible thing
happens in town that we're going to
touch this
this um fund EXA like Eric said if it's
G to make everyone feel better and you
know to put that in in order to get it
passed then then I'm fine with adding
that but I don't think it's wrong to add
you know I think it can only help to add
that language just to make it explicit
so that you know people are clear on it
you know and and and honestly if the
policy if the if the charter were to
change and you know Shannon was right to
bring that up if the were to change we
you know we would have and there would
be some conflicts with this particular
policy or any policy that we have you
know the charter is going to Prevail so
it probably makes sense to have it in
there you know I'm I'm good with this I
think as it is with or with that with
that cave with that yeah with that one
line yeah you're also going to run a
file of section 807 in the
charter which states that the board of
Finance in consultation with CIP and the
board of
Selectmen so maintain the written
purchasing policies and uh oversee
purchase
requests
um although that is not really
considered it as it are
they right but the charter calls out
that as a CIP responsibility so now
you're saying for onethird of the but
so some things are already carved out
for the local Board of Education
regarding CIP the question in the the
thing that's unclear in 807 is does that
include capital
projects um and that's not I wouldn't
want to weigh in on that as to what the
legalities of that you would have to
that would be a consultation from the
town's attorney um what he felt that we
thought of that
yeah I mean I I always approaching get
where the Boe was carved out but
um
yeah it says right in the very first
section of 807 except the local Board of
Education so right the very first
paragraph says that the board of
education is excluded Eric yeah right
but the Board of Education doesn't own
the building and doesn't own the grounds
and doesn't have the authority to do
capital projects anyway
technically without the approval of the
board of
Selectmen so that's always been and I do
agree that the charter is very unclear
there um that's why I'm saying I would
not weigh in on that either way I
disagree with your interpretation but I
don't know that I'm correct and I'm not
an attorney
well I disagree with your interpretation
that the board of education has to have
the board of selectman sign off on every
Capital project but the whole purpose of
this creation of this tri board
committee is to try to create some
Harmony among all three boards and
instead of us having a
jurisdictional continuing fight between
who has what authority to have all three
boards come together as we've been
trying to do to have a tri board
committee have oversight over capital
projects that's the whole purpose of
this thing so right and I just
personally think it's kind of dumb to
have two different organizations that
oversee capital
projects but who else oversees capital
projects Eric the capital I'm on CIP we
don't have any authority to oversee the
capital project so it's not duplicative
right you refer
to the appropriate board correct so it's
not
duplicative right
yep okay so I guess what I'm hearing is
it sounds like a lot of the board
members are in favor of this I'm not
hearing anything uh
that lead me to think otherwise um but
that there is a desire to have
the caveat language put in that the
charter would Prevail in the event of a
conflict Rob just threw something up
there it looked pretty good right yeah
I'm just I just threw out you know my
draft Edition that one sentence I was
talking about I I wanted to put it down
instead of just saying it out loud yeah
um you know if anybody has a better idea
great um but you know ideally what we do
is we amend it and pass this and and
send it on for review and consideration
to BOS yep so are you're proposing that
we make a motion to approve this along
with the addition of a clause that
indicates that the charter would Prevail
in the event of a conflict yes and I
don't know if we just you say you know
this is section e notwithstanding the
foregoing nothing in this policy shall
supersede the town Charter period
similar language yeah yeah so is my
assumption by this that the tri board
committee is going to be the one
responsible for coming up with
rfps coming up with a purchasing policy
for those
rfps uh and managing the projects
overseeing the projects is that the
intention of
this because that's kind of what it
looks like for
me I didn't take it that way I took it
that it was just that was a tribe and I
could be wrong
the explicitly says right at the top of
the screen though Bill all capital
projects at 35 School Road shall be
managed by the tribe board Comm okayy
clear language yep all right you're
right right I mean that's easy from my
perspective because that absolves me of
any responsibility for any Capital
project um and for that matter it
disolves the
superintendant it says that tri board is
going to manage that project so who is
representative on the board of Finance
per managed as The Rock clearly good
point you're good point I don't like I
know I go back I assume that that that
committee is gonna need help with
something like an RFP yes that's a good
oh you could you could state that um to
manage the project means to select a
project
manager who will then assume
responsibility and that could
be somebody in the school it could be
somebody in the town it could be a third
party right so you could argue that but
it it's pretty clear with this policy
that they are responsible for that it
doesn't automatically fall to the school
district and it doesn't automatically
fall to the town or CIP or anyone else
so
it's yeah I think I think the idea is
oversight more than nitty-gritty
management uh and so maybe that we could
but Eric does raise a good question
absolutely capital projects are not
they're
they're pretty involved right so
somebody needs to manage it Mark sorry I
think I was and and I should have gotten
a lot deeper in it so it is great that
Eric is here I we got shann inside the
last
time I was thinking this committee was
going to get together as far as
selecting what needed to be done maybe
you know prioritizing Shannon and so you
know these terms are it's good that Eric
man you know manage means managing and
that's a lot like in our school system
we have the buildings and grounds it's a
heck of a lot bigger but there's a lot
that goes into it you know you may let
people in your school building or show
someone to where the work site's going
to be in the building if they're working
on a bathroom or something but managing
the work inspecting the work all of that
so that word managed probably needs to
be changed so again in the in the heart
of of trying to do something really good
for the town and I believe in this the
word managed is a little much for what I
was thinking I was thinking suggestions
are going to be made they're going to be
brought forward so yeah I that's the way
I understood it and I and I was remiss
in the beginning of that too I agree
with Joanne I thought the tri board was
going to agree on the capital projects
that were going to be funded and then it
would go to the normal whatever normal
is channels yeah channels to manage and
and run these projects um so that that I
missed that at the beginning this is
obviously getting a little bit more
legalistic than I think we all really
thought at first but manage is a a too
strong of a word for me to tell you the
truth because it does may I make a
comment sorry i s waiting
for I think with all this
misinterpretation I really feel the town
attorney should be looking at this and
giving giving uh his okay on it because
Eric makes a really good point and who
wants to be on a committee if that
responsibility is going to be on
them sorry Arc I think I saw this
committee as as functioning kind of like
a kind of an adhoc CIP for this
particular purpose too so if we need to
specify that you know we're talking
about oversight really more than
management um and then
I guess do we have to explicitly spell
out that the the U the tri Bo committee
can designate a project manager or
something along those lines uh as we as
they see fit for such projects and I
just input that the easiest way is just
to change the word
managed say that again Shannon say that
again the easiest way is just to change
the word managed if that's what people
are having a trouble with so instead of
the fact that it's going to be managed
by the tribal Bo committee we could put
in something like overseen or something
like that a as Robert just said the
whole intent of this thing um is for the
tri board committee to agree upon what
capital projects are going to be done
and then not undertake the management of
the project as a p project manager would
do right um so again it's trying to be
cooperative among all three boards so if
it's better to put a different word than
managed um I'm getting IL legal EAS as
well but I understand that manag is a
strong word um so has the town attorney
seen this yet no not that I'm aware of
but I would imagine that somebody has
passed it along to
him I would like this committee to be
like you said the decider kind of they
will get together as a committee the
Board of Ed would bring to the Forefront
the item items that they may want to
consider you know we also know you know
and then hopefully with the three boards
talking together they will present why
you know this is needed first second
third you know safety it's going to blow
or something you know things like that
and then I mean we do have a very
capable town so as far as managing and
we pay all the people and I think we put
in money to have some kind of project
person in the office too to assist Eric
so I would like all the projects to go
that row you know that that way so
however I don't know how everyone feels
and I don't want to get too much into
the weeds because I certainly don't work
there I like this to be just a decision
maker oh sorry it didn't mean up TR I
would say if you change the word managed
by the word authorized it kind of fits
what everyone's talking about there you
go you could just eliminate V it's
almost redundant you can almost just get
rid of it yeah I was thinking of that
too um because determine how the money
will be spent exactly part we could or
you could just add to a shall be uh how
determine how the money shall be spent
on capital projects comma and
oversee um and and service oversight for
said projects or something like that if
we want to just sort of put a BT
suspender on it but I'm not you're right
I think B could probably just go yeah
oversight is scary too because oversight
means you you know I feel like that's a
little bit responsible too like are you
coordinating the workers to come in are
you you know like well somebody's gonna
have to do it so it may fall to the
board of Selectmen because it's
technically a town Capital project we
have Town people that are paid salaries
to do work or whatever it's not gonna be
ongoing projects all the time but yeah
the other thing is I mean I guess what I
would say is I mean I have to admit yeah
I hadn't thought about who was going to
do the project man I guess I sort of
assumed it would go it would be
ultimately put through the town but I
guess what I would say is you know the
last time ases had to do a capital
project you know something that strikes
us as capital because obviously there
was no mechanism like this before uh you
know who managed
it uh how how was that done in the past
you know obviously you have to have
somebody be able to work with the
contractor and you know make sure that
everything's on the up and get the
permitting done and all about that so
surely we've we've done something in the
past and we could try and make sure that
this
is allows for that uh but yeah I mean my
gut is that the the actual simplest
thing to do here is remove
B
um because managed is yeah managed that
now that you bring it up managed is a
bad word to be putting on this tri board
committee it's not going to have the
expertise necessary
right Rob just to answer your question
the I've been on the board of ed now for
nine years the last major project that
we did which I guess arguably could have
been considered a capital project but it
didn't bring about all of this problem
was uh to put a new roof on the school
um and for that project we formed a
subcommittee um and the subcommittee
consisted of members of the Board of Ed
um members from the town um me who had
engineering expertise and whatnot um so
that's how it was done that's how we
foresaw future capital projects being
done but then the whole situation
happened last year with the driveway
project so this is what we've come to
and I love the word authorized that's an
excellent suggestion
Mark so Shannon I guess I just want to
ask one more thing because this is for
my knowledge I was trying to protect the
Board of Ed from having to do all of
that but it kind of sounds like you they
did not mind having a subcommittee to
have to do all of that I'm sure they at
least want to have as far as checking on
the workers or doing this or being
responsible so all right I'll sit back
and listen understood how this is going
to
go Mark I just have one further question
is that would these projects be subject
to the town Board of finances purchasing
policy
I don't even know if we're that far yet
um fair question fair question yeah what
is the status of our purchasing policy
at this
point we have when's the last time we
looked at that it's been a while I think
we passed it and we lowered the max I
think in in one time I'd have to I'd
have to draw it back up in the emails
but didn't we did finally pass it within
the last two years was your last major
revision yeah um and it's the policy the
town is running under now
certainly what is the what is the amount
that has to
um triggers in RFP yeah sorry yeah was
it like 25
15,000 that's what I was gonna say we
lowered it to 15 at that last time but
we we said we could Circle back if we
needed to and we haven't needed to yet
yeah I think we need to revisit the
policy
um based on this
uh this joint policy make sure that
we're not in conflict and that they're
somehow and some way
compatible I mean this this policy right
now is silent on that um so it's not you
know again Eric raises it because it's
this this doesn't specifically say
anything about a
uh a spending policy
you know and and doesn't it would either
you'd either have to bake something into
this directly or simply make reference
to the townside policy um or exempt it
if you wanted to go that route but right
now it's
silent I think we need to revisit it if
we're going to approve this just to make
sure we're not in conflict and that's
not a problem I think we should revisit
that policy every year anyway and just
make sure it's working and we don't you
know foresee the need for any changes
yeah I mean costs go up you know do we
still fill it that's the right threshold
for instance you just as an example we
should be kind of periodically checking
in on that you know if it's putting any
burden on the town employees we want to
understand that yeah
okay so folks uh I'm not sure where we
where we land here if we want to
um you know hand this back to Rob and
Shannon to kind of make those the minor
proposed changes and and then see where
it goes with uh you know with the other
boards and the board of Finance whether
you want to try to authorize this based
on you know expected wording changes or
uh we table it till the next meeting
when we have some revised language I
would be in favor of having Shannon and
Rob just kind of make those changes in
here so we can look at it one more time
and maybe even like we talked about Mark
send by
the uh Town attorney just to make sure
it's can always get the opinion you know
find out what he thinks yeah um so
definitely table ter so in terms of
redrafting I mean um I I think we have
you know we two issues we kind of
fleshed out the one that's still sort of
hang hanging there is indeed that the
purchasing policy question uh I don't
you know am I hearing from the board
that they that you all generally think
that we should make reference to that in
this document no I wouldn't you wouldn't
no I wouldn't I mean I I think we want
to make sure that we're
compatible um but um you that there's
nothing that prohibits you know that
it's compatible that they can they can
both exist side by side not in
Conflict um at least at this point until
we go back to RIS
policy but it sounds like everyone's in
favor of this General process for this
particular
fund yeah and I guess the last question
would be Eric you brought up the just
just a kind of as a um as a potential
difficulty the length of the name of the
thing uh can you Circle back to us on
that at some point um and just let us
know what the character limit is yeah I
it may not be a problem but I remember
at one point we were having to truncate
the number the names in the fund um
because we we didn't have that many
characters but I don't know what that
limits are and we had some with pretty
long names okay let's just let's just
figure that out if we have to take road
and make it Rd or something you know to
make it fit just let us know um okay so
we take we more pass at it it I I don't
know if Shannon you think maybe it might
make sense for us even though the board
of Finance isn't going to take action on
it tonight we had a pretty good
discussion and whether we might want to
start the board of Selectmen looking at
it anyway or if you think we should hold
and we you know I'm I'm sort of again I
could go either way here uh you know
Board of finances I think looking at
this pretty favorably we just want to
tighten a couple things up that Eric's
raised as good question you guys can
talk about that offline too but you know
we could and Lord knows I don't want to
set up any more meetings than we have to
but we could always if if there was some
urgency behind this we could hope
together a special meeting if we can get
a quorum since since I don't think this
is going to be particularly
controversial once we get the language
up yeah I guess my only thought is when
do we really need to get this thing
nailed down such that you know that
bathroom project can move
ahead because that's the big one right
that's that's the one that's staring Us
in the
face we're okay for now um I think
you're going to address it later on and
your we just lost you
muted you're muted Shannon I don't know
what
happened I didn't mute her I did real
quickly um thank you um very quickly um
Rob and I uh why don't we finalize the
language um pass it along to the board
of Selectmen for their input and then
hopefully next month all three boards
can finalize the
policy okay when you send it to the
board please CC me so I can CC Dennis
O'Brien the town oh yes I meant to after
Rob and I do the policy I would send it
on to the town attorney before sending
it to the board of Selectmen good and
I'll CC you Eric sorry about that yep
not a
problem okay so it sounds like we're not
GNA have a motion on this tonight then
some good discussion thanks everybody uh
if nobody has any objections we'll move
on to the next uh next agenda
item yep okay that is the
um education mandate relief legislative
wrapup oh sorry oh no I'm
sorry
trans we have some leftover money right
5A transfer of funds okay let me these
are all surpluses right
Eric so
we uh as the treasur discussed with you
last month in agreement with the auditor
the auditor felt that we didn't need to
make inter budget transfers we just
needed to make each budget uh you know
um zero or greater so these are all the
budgets that the town ran a deficit in
excuse me Eric are you able to make that
a little bigger like they did the last
time
or in the uh maybe yeah just hit the
plus sign in the bottom right you can
also collapse that menu bar on the left
but I think it's the plus item on the
bottom right you'll you'll get where you
need to
go if not I'll sit closer we have you if
not it's in our emails Joan you know oh
no I got it it it I was on the email
around four we got it about 4 this
afternoon I did see it yes thank you I
know I'm trying to just see it here
thank you yep so
basically you know we're we're in the
black we're not overspent overall in the
budget by any means um you know this
these are just instead of doing you know
75 of these and transferring evening off
each budget line item what we're doing
is
just you know making each
department uh
poll so all of these were within the
department as we talked about
so no these are transfers between
departments got it these are Department
that are over okay um and usually we get
where it's so maybe that's at the bottom
like okay so you're transferring this
and then we see where you're making the
adjustment then so these are the ones
that are the money will come from got it
my admin assist plan item town clerk
election's benefits
I move we uh approve the requested
budget transfers uh as set forth in the
fiscal year transfer request number one
document I'll second B seconds okay we
have any
discussion I do have a a question Eric
can you scroll up to the
top brother a little bit um yep keep
going keep
going so I noticed a lot of them were
salaries so was this overtime or you
know again I know we have the money to
cover it but is that how we went over on
that um
so since we budget for salaries you know
so the biggest one over is the town
planner so when we budgeted for the town
planner we assumed that uh we were going
to take roughly 2third of his total
salary from the town planner line item
and
$88,000 of that from the old capital
fund that is there
for uh for the plan of conservation and
development because we're essentially
using the town planner to develop the
plan um but by taking because we have
enough of a surplus that it doesn't
matter by funding this that means we can
go one year before the town has to pay
the full Freight of the Town planner's
wages because next year that means we
can cover his salary again like in this
budget his salary will be
covered Again 2third by wages by the
town planner wages line item onethird by
the old capital fund this means next
year we don't have to see a budget
increase to see full wages because we've
able to we've been able to cover that
does that make
sense so it allows us to Kick the Can
and not pass the wage increase onto the
public for one one more fiscal
year I remember when he came on board
there was certain things that were doing
okay yeah I just had that quick question
I'm good I know we we can move on if
we're that's my discussion please thank
you y anybody have any other comments or
questions okay hearing none call for a
vote all those in favor say I I any
opposed any extensions
okay we'll go ahead and move on to the
next item which is 5B education mandate
relief legislative
wrapup
okay hang on
so uh my understanding was that you
wanted to talk about that further in
this budget that was the the thing that
I asked Cheryl to bring up with you last
time which was the requirement or the
change in
regulation that now automatically gives
gives the Board of Education the
opportunity to put 2% of any unexpended
funds in their 2% nlap sying
account we got that part Eric we didn't
go over I know we had a lot of
information in our last you know month's
packet so we said we were just going to
look it over and we didn't need to hear
about all of it but if there was
anything key that you thought you should
tell us as a board we were just pushing
that off we understood the non lapsing
you know they can put it in and they
don't need permission that was easy we
had the one piece document right I know
you know you yeah if there was any it
was pretty self-explanatory we just were
going to wait for you to come back if
you had anything big you needed to share
with us no I don't
think uh
you know there are some things that
are still potentially very problematic
within the last couple of years of
legislation that may have a significant
negative effect um it's still kind of
unclear one of the things that's been
kind of
scary uh for towns is that you know
although we're not seeing it yet in our
kerma bill um the state of Connecticut
basically made the presumption that any
firefighter including volunteer fighter
fighter they got any form of cancer it
would be considered a work related and
therefore Kera would be on the hook for
you know workers comp to cover that
individual so and they set up a fund to
pay for that at the state level but you
know they're not putting a whole lot of
money in it they only put money into it
once so so at some point that's
something that's likely to bite all the
towns um you know and you can argue that
firefighters do have an increased risk
of certain types of cancer absolutely no
question about that um but it was kind
of a blanket statement um and that may
have ramifications in the future so so
that's one of them um the
legislature uh certainly refused to
tackle
anything in terms of uh changing the
prevailing wage thresholds for uh Public
Works
projects um which is something the
legislature really needs to tackle
because you know it's been like 18 years
since they've adjusted the wage
thresholds for
renovation um but you know
unfortunately right now there's no and I
spoke directly with the chair uh of both
parties um you know in the in the Senate
um and neither of them have any
intention of of approaching that in fact
it came pretty close to making
through uh something new this year which
would have said any uh any utility work
is automatically prevailing wage no
matter how big or no how or how small
and based on the definition the state
has um any electrical run any conduit
run between building any fiber run any
of that would have automatically been a
prevailing wage you know job forever
more if that had passed no matter how
expensive or inexpensive it was I mean
certainly that would have had a a
negative impact to us um financially um
other than that I don't have a lot from
this legislative session that had Direct
Financial impacts we're still waiting to
see what the legislature is going to end
up doing um the other thing that
potentially can affect us is if they
really
do uh start changing the regulations
regarding affordable houses and
requiring towns to invest in affordable
housing that would definitely be an
expense the town have to uh you know
have
to to deal with um the other thing that
we just found out the last week that we
kind of made the cut fortunately is I
had submitted a uh grant for additional
arpa funding for the community center um
for about $9,000 to furnish uh parts of
the community center um and I had been
waiting because I I had plenty of time
before the grant deadline submission so
I was going to submit it fairly late
install the project so we had a CO
before we we started requesting it but
then the legislature decided to defund
that whole project um so but I had the
application ready to go so I just
submitted it as soon as they were rumors
that they were going to defund it um and
so our submission was in time um and
basically if IID submitted it two weeks
later they just wouldn't have funded it
because they cut about a third of the
money from the project but that
shouldn't affect us we should get the
money for that um the other thing that
is positive is I did submit for a
congressional uh
appropriation um through Senator
Murphy's
office um and we did make it into the
appropriation bill which is the very
first step in the legislative process
and actually getting the money but at
least we've cleared the first two
hurdles which is we submitted a grant
that was technically correct um it made
it through the reviewing agency which
was the I think Department of
Agriculture
and the Appropriations Committee put it
in the appropriation funding bill still
has to go through the legislature still
going to be three four months at best
before we know whether it's funded but
if we get that um that would give us
about
$310,000 that we will spend towards
completion of the community center and
installing the backup generator to cover
all three buildings um and then we're on
the hook for 25% of that so we would
spend about
$100,000 but we would spend that
$100,000 that we've already earmarked
for the community center anyway so we're
not spending any money we already
haven't designated for that exact
project we're just hopefully adding
$310,000 in federal funding to that so
awesome um you know in terms of
legislative stuff that's that's pretty
much all I got at this point and we all
Le through it but no that's perfect
thank you
Eric yep great job y
okay if we have no other questions uh we
can move on to item 4 C which is the
town match for the Deep Trails
Grant okay I don't know whether I've
announced to the board of
Finance yet or
not uh we were successful finally in
getting a
d uh wck Trails
Grant um I got the award letter in the
beginning of June um that does require a
town match so it is basically a grant to
design a multi-use pathway that goes
from the town call to the rail trail
through the town's property uh behind
the town
hall um so the grant award is for
83,500 the town has to
contribute um 200 or correction uh
$21,000 I'm proposing that we take that
from the multi-use building fund um and
fortunately we added 50,000 to that this
year so we have the the capacity to do
that with that
Grant um and then my
intention if we uh once we've completed
the design um which should be fairly
easy
because we already had an RFP to select
the contractor that was doing all the
design work for both paths so we
shouldn't have to go back to RFP because
we already have a a project estimate
that matches the grant poll
um
so uh that does have to go to town
meeting um the board of Selectmen is
scheduling a town meeting August 1st
um I asked them to do that because they
were holding a public
meeting uh or a public hearing anyway on
their uh on the charter revision stuff
and I thought by doing that you're
likely to get a bigger turnout and have
people weigh in on both uh both things
so and the board of selectman can't
technically uh sign what they need to
sign for the state because the charter
requires public approval for that
project but it because it requires a
town match um so that's that's that I'm
just informing you at this point that
that is going to go to town meeting um
and I would hope you would all come out
to town meeting and weigh in
on go ahead what is the total cost of
this project I know this is a secondary
Trail that'll go behind the schools and
then link up with the big projects so
not to talk I know we it's been a long
meeting already but not to ask a lot
about this particular thing but the
total cost of this project I think it's
104,000 yeah if my math right do if I'm
doing the math right it's just a
hairover right 104 375 if it's a 20%
match and you're saying the match of
his 21 yeah right math and it's it's
just shy of 105 yeah it's 104 375 if my
math is right but it's it's right around
there yeah this is just a connector to
to the to the bigger project going on
316 or is it per all the way down to the
uh rail trail so this goes all the way
down to the rail trail yeah um really
what this does is makes it a loop trail
um and that is one of the reasons why we
got the other Grant um among other
things is that we proposed it as phase
one of something that would provide
because that that's something that you
know everybody seems to really like to
fund things that uh create existing
Loops so this would be this would allow
a loop that goes from the town hall runs
down School Road runs down 316 on a
pathway there jumps on the Hop River
Rail Trail heads towards Willam manic on
the Hop River Rail Trail goes back onto
the secondary path and Loops back to the
town hall resulting in about a two and a
half mile Loop by a very steep section
which a lot of people don't like but uh
maybe the design will end up with some
switchbacks so well that that's exactly
why I'll consider volunteering for the
oversight committee on this one I hi
time yeah no doubt I mean I like I like
the steepness because it's one of the
few places around here you can get any
elevation but uh anyway come walk Bear
Swamp Road sometimes it's pretty steep I
know right
yeah I feel it okay so that's just
information at this point okay thank
right um well if there's no further
questions on that and I don't want to
cut anybody off but guess Joan notice we
running pretty long um so the next item
agenda item we have is 5D which is the
error in the budget
sheet I don't know if you want to pull
that up or you want me to but yep I can
pull that up
Mark can I ask you I mean while we're
waiting for him to pull up did anyone
see my email question was I
correct in asking that it was like a
$40,000 error when I was looking at the
lines uh I didn't look at the actual
line
yeah yeah so yeah I think technically
it's a $41,000 eror no I didn't want to
you know I knew okay right yep so I was
you know I mean I I know spreadsheets
well yep it's so we passed a budget that
was $40,000 higher than it needed to
be because of that spy correct and I
mean I'm I'm just calling it what it
is it's a big error I mean especially in
a year so much of a spending
increase um I understand your thought
sorry Mark that I kind of took over but
I know it's been a no it's fine I don't
have any to add I mean
yeah because you know when we added so
much spending this year and you know I
everybody was in favor of the difference
put on it but I didn't use it and then
the you know yes we won't be taking so
much from the Surplus or whatever you
said but my intent is we could have
saved the taxpayers the 40,000 so I'm
sorry to get on this negative but it has
to be said you know we we up the
spending a lot in this budget so to have
this big of an
error kind of breaks my heart a little
but I'll sit
back so unfortunately think probably not
not much we can do with it um other than
make note of it and if we so choose just
you know take this into account we
develop the budget for next year yeah
obviously we don't want to make mistakes
like that um so the idea here is
basically we're just going to draw down
less from our fund balance which you
know in turn is good for the town
because we were actually finally making
interest on that stuff so that's pretty
nice um in a sense you know hopefully it
does ultimately net out in the in
taxpayers favor but yeah you know oops
that's that's an error and it's
unfortunate and I
did I did ask the question when we were
passing it if you know if the
spreadsheets were checked and double
checked and yeah it's not everybody
makes mistakes in their jobs or whatever
happens but it just like you said like
Mark said take no I will be checking all
those cells in the you know because you
you want to go back and check what adds
up and what feeds into the other so I
definitely remember making sure before
we passed it to ask has this been you
know confirmed yeah that's all I mean
there's nothing I don't like to keep
going on and on I wish it was like $40
and not 40,000 so
you me too you
know um especially because I was
fighting to take little things off here
and there you know and I I understand we
passed this budget and maybe that's why
I feel more strongly about I you know i'
yeah it's okay I'm gonna stop but it's
40,000 is a lot when we up the budget so
much this
year the spending yeah any uh any qu
other questions or
comments yeah I mean I I I will totally
tell you that's a screw up you know on
the part of the town no
doubt now there's no action for us to
take on it right I don't think so I that
that's what my question is what what
happens now ultimately we may need to do
a year end transfer for the Departments
or something like that to you know
because we're going to end up a surplus
in this in this area right so but I
don't think there's any action to take
right now and a quick question is there
any way to make this right moving
forward are we able since we're since
we're 40,000 say we did want to go with
our original thing we can't save this
and give it back to the town next year
somehow we've already legally set our
mill rate right yeah so next year we
would just you know we would
just you know reduce the budget by
40,000 somewhere in theory I mean what
one thing we can do right is as we what
I was just getting at right when we do
ultimately take some action here right
we're going to probably end up
transferring some Surplus because it's
not needed right right because the
spreadsheet era and we can transfer that
into fund balance into unexpended fund
balance and note that we're doing that
and then kind of have
that it gets a little tricky because of
course you know once you put in
unexpended fund balance it goes into a
giant pool of money but um you know
depending on how what we're doing in the
budget next
season how we're working it up what we
are we drawing from fund balance at all
you know we can try and do some kind of
offset uh such that before the taxpayers
you know receive a proposed budget from
us we've accounted for the issue perfect
thank you rob yeah I just want to keep
it in mind for next year I perfect yeah
do we need to communicate that to the
town at
all is there something in the charter
that says if there's an error
made that the town should be
notified
starter okay no in in a sense we are
through this meeting I guess you know I
don't think we need to make a formal
announcement somewhere I mean I think if
it's one of these things that was a
couple hundred thousand dollars or would
have would have significant impact to
the services provided to the town it
would probably be incumbent upon us to
you know make a bigger deal out of but
maybe but that's my take I mean remember
too when you set a budget we don't for
instance know what our exemptions and
abatements are so that number has always
some FL has a fear so in any
given you know trying to get a budget
and I'm not making light of the fact
that we over taxed the citizens $40,000
I have a problem with that too I mean I
wish that had
happen but in the grand SC scheme of
things there's so much uncertainty in a
budget anyway the likelihood of us
hitting it within
$40,000 is pretty small yeah um
frankly yeah I mean which is not to
excuse the fact that we screwed up the
budget by 40,000 bucks because we didn't
well it's on a year where we increased
spending so a huge amount we did offset
it because the ram Levy was lower and
different things were lower it's just
it's hard to take an a where we increase
the spending by a lot but you're we can
justify anything and it is what it is at
this point I get it um and I like what
Rob said maybe when there's a surplus at
the end of the year and it goes back
into un you know I certainly won't be
voting for spending you know I'll be
thinking about the 40,000 in my head at
the end of the year but
again it is hard to ever formulate an
exact budget
but yeah but you don't want to have
mistakes that can be avoided right so
yeah it's you know it's like less than
half half a percent of our overall
budget you know doesn't really mean it's
not important but you know it is it's
the full picture yeah I agree going
forward we get the formulas
correct yep
kind of surprised we missed this
actually because I think several of us
kind of took a look at it try to make
sure that things are right
so okay any other comments or questions
on
that yeah I'll be honest we didn't pick
it up until Cheryl put the budget into
QuickBooks and then we had a difference
in the totals between QuickBooks and the
budget um we couldn't fix figure out
what it was and Cheryl was the one who
finally found it um you know because all
the individual totals for the individual
line matched up but the bottom line
dollar did not um now it was also offset
by the fact that our final Grand list
you know was definitely lower than uh
you know what the published Grand list
was um because obviously when you know
there's six months between the start of
the budget year and and when tax bills
go out so there are changes to that so
that was that sucked up a portion of the
difference
anyway um you know but but that doesn't
mean we didn't screw up and it did it
did result in residents paying about one
one Mills more than they probably should
have been taxed
okay well I guess if nobody has anything
else we can move on to the next item
which is 5e the meiu contract Eric the
notations in the packet indicate that
this is a privileged communication does
this mean we have to go into executive
session and discussion or are we just
not going to talk specifics no it
doesn't in in at this point so what is
happened is we sat down we met with the
Union this was a very easy Union
negotiation because the previous time
four years ago we had set in place most
of the changes on the town side we
wanted to see in the contract so this
contract already pretty much had
everything we wanted in it the only
things that were really up for debate is
what the actual percentage increase
year-over-year um
whether that Union would agree to give
up the extra vacation day so it matched
the town Personnel policy in the other
Union and whether they would agree to an
increase in their percentage share for
health care so um that's kind of what we
settled on between that I brought it
back to the board of Selectmen the board
of Selectmen was in agreement with the
outline of that document um and on that
basis and they authorized me to sign
anou so that we could start get the
books set up correctly for this fiscal
year and not have to do what we had to
do with the other Union which is go back
and try to figure it out later once we
finally because we'd already settled on
what the conditions were going to be so
at this point the only thing we're
waiting on is final contract language to
go back and forth between them and the
board a few times to settle on exact
verbage but the outline of the the
contract is
settled I just have one
question sh Eric I just have one
question I know I sat in the
negotiations the last time who was the
management side of you know representing
the town so are you saying you met a you
met you sat across the table from the
union people and then you brought it
back to the board of Selectmen uh so so
the board of Selectmen uh had the first
Selectmen sit in on it so it was Jeff
Maguire and myself okay thank you
yep other questions on
that okay hearing none I guess we'll
move on remember we did add an agenda
item for new business to for the uh
schedule of uh not sure exactly what
it's called Eric for the school
transfers
yeah let me bring that up
yeah this is my problem I got 18
different documents I'll open at once
because I never know what you're gonna
ask okay on your toes let me
[Music]
see so the adopted budget is that that's
the agreed on budget for the fiscal year
so in the
past um the board of Finance has never
been willing to provide a month-by-month
allocation based on what they think
their expenditures are in any given
month which is what RAM does RAM gives
us a variable
schedule because they have enough data
to know how much money they need in you
know October and how much money they
need in December so what the previous
request had been from the Board of Ed
was just to divide it in 10 equal
payments start the payments in July um
and pay them this much each month in up
through April and then by April they
would have gotten their entire allotment
for the year um
so I think that corresponds to what the
Board of Education wants um and I told
the town Treasurer to go ahead and do
that and her comment to me was that she
didn't feel that since we were talking
about a third of the total Town budget
uh that she or I should be doing that
without the board of finances approval
so what I'm asking you to do is to
approve that as a levy schedule so we
can pay them their first allotment uh in
July um and I'm sorry we didn't bring
this up at the last meeting I think she
said you talked about it but nobody made
any motion so she didn't feel
comfortable uh establishing a levy
schedule on per so that would be my
suggestion um you may choose a different
Levy schedule if you if you want but um
again I think the appropriate way to do
it is just split
it you know um and the along with that
I think the first selectman is trying to
work with the chair of Board of Ed to
set up their own stiff
account um so because there are times
when the board of education has a pretty
healthy uh you know a million and a half
or so in their accounts make some good
money on it no reason they shouldn't be
making 5% interest on that money too
where that gets tricky is a board of
ed a Board of Ed has a budget so excess
money just like the town doesn't get to
spend the money that we make in our
stiff account it automatically runs into
the unexpended fund balance technically
that money should run into the
unexpended fund balance um on the town
side not on their side my suggestion is
that you make an agreement with the
Board of Ed but I guess if you all
signed this agreement it would happen
anyway but that money then be
automatically designated to go into the
capital the AES sorry the 35
School Capital fund I'm sorry that just
doesn't roll off the T no it
doesn't Eric I apologize if you already
walked us through this and I I just
didn't s sync in um so how how does this
Levy schedule differ from what we've
done in the past what did we do last
year what did we do the year before how
did it work uh you did basically the
same thing uh all I'm asking you to do
is do the same thing you did last year
you want us to bless it okay right the
treasur is just not not comfortable
making payments without some sort of
schedule um by the board of Finance on
how that should be established yeah and
we could probably separately just from
this particular action we should
probably consider establishing a policy
of Levy pay instance you know that is
com you know convenable to the you know
Board of ad that you know just follows
the schedule so there is no uh confusion
in the
future anyway does anybody want to make
a motion that we follow this Levy
schedule I'll make the motion that we
follow the schedule as presented the
levy schedule as presented okay I'll
second it okay is there further
discussion hearing none I'll call for a
vote all those in favor say say I I any
opposed any
extensions motion passes thank you
everybody okay okay I will inform them
and make that happen thank you
great um then the next agenda item is
item six which is approval of the
meeting minutes um I looked at the the
minutes from the last meeting and it
looks like we didn't approve the May
meeting
that was carried forward but they're not
in the packet so I don't know if we want
to vote on those also I feel like we
were missing them I think there's a
reason we didn't pass it yeah yeah so
we're missing them again they probably
don't technically need to be there but I
think it would be better if they are
there to make sure was had a chance to
review them so maybe we just and we
didn't change the budget not or the
agenda for that but anyway um so we do
have this before us would anybody like
to make a motion regarding these meeting
minutes
I move we approve the
minutes second I'll second it hey Joanne
thank you got you any
discussion okay call for a vote all
those in favor say I I I any
opposed I'm going to abstain because I
was not there at the meeting I abstain
as well you're abstaining also Bill okay
so motion passes uh 5 to
two I'm sorry four to two Kim here I
don't know if you saw her email but she
wasn't feeling well she sent a few
minutes before the meeting started oh
good I missed that so I mean not that
she's not feeling I saw it right when I
was logging in
yeah minutes before the meeting started
yeah okay um agenda item seven is
administrator's report do you have
anything we haven't already
discussed uh let me just check through
my
notes uh I wanted to talk about the AES
Levy
schedule uh we talked about the
transfers we talked about the wck trails
Grant I want to once again reiterate
that we're having the grand opening for
the community center on August 10th at
4M um just so that you know on average
since the founding of the town of Anover
we've only Built a building about every
25 years so uh um you know hopefully
I'll be dead by the time we build the
next one so you might as well come
celebrate
hopefully um
and uh on a good new note uh kerma our
insurance company was
uh um made a profit overall uh this last
year enough that they're returning money
again this year to the members we're not
getting as much as we got the year
before but they're returning
$2,106 and they're going to give us the
check August 1 so we got a few extra
dollars um which is good because what we
didn't budget for in our insurance was
the fact that we were adding a new
building uh um in the town so we're
about to add about a million bucks in
capital assets to our insurance policy
um which I don't think will cost us
$2,000 so those two should be a wash so
we're happy there um so again August 1st
there will be a public meeting uh to
hopefully approve the town match for the
wreck Trails Grant um and that's pretty
much all I have uh related
to um to
me
okay any
questions okay hearing none we'll move
on to Liaison reports does anybody have
a liaison
report C
thisth there wasn't anything to bring up
so okay we'll move on to correspondence
um I did forward one thing that I got
from Cheryl that I don't think she
copied the entire board on uh that was
just the um it was a report from the
state uh about the transactions from the
state I barely opened it up took a look
at it so you have that in your inbox
it's just for review only no action
needed I think on
that uh okay I don't think I had any
other corresponden or you guys already
had it or I forwarded if I had
it um that looks like that if nobody has
anything else move on to public
speak looks like we still have Shannon
and Linda I commend you both for hanging
in there does anybody have anything to
add Linda nope I've spoken enough thanks
very much okay no thank you okay thank
you okay our last agenda item is
adjournment would anybody like to make a
motion to
adjourn I'll make the motion to adjourn
I'll
second that Bill seconding yes okay I'm
sure we'll have some discussion on
this no no controversy
anyone okay all in favor ofj German hi
hi any anybody
opposed no
extensions all right thank you very much
everybody uh maybe we'll see if the town
meeting August 1